# sql_challenge
My first module utilizing SQL

# Background
"It’s been two weeks since you were hired as a new data engineer at Pewlett Hackard (a fictional company). Your first major task is to do a research project about people whom the company employed during the 1980s and 1990s. All that remains of the employee database from that period are six CSV files."
In this challenge, you will perform data modeling, data engineering, and data analysis.

# Data Modeling
Inspect the CSV files, and then sketch an Entity Relationship Diagram of the tables.

# Data Engineering
Create a table schema for each of the six CSV files.
Specify the data types, primary keys, foreign keys, and other constraints.
Import each CSV file into its corresponding SQL table.

# Data Analysis
- List the employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary of each employee.
- List the first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986.
- List the manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee      number, last name, and first name.
- List the department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name,    first name, and department name.
- List first name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last       name begins with the letter B.
- List each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first      name.
- List each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last     name, first name, and department name.
- List the frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many      employees share each last name).

# Resources: 
Columbia University Data Analytics Bootcamp - Module 9
https://bootcampspot.instructure.com/courses/4737/assignments/68528?module_item_id=1162032

Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
